fix(suno-engineer): enforce Style Box descriptor limit and default Performance Cues (#453)
bitwize-music-studio/claude-ai-music-skills: skills/suno-engineer/SKILL.md

clean electric guitar, driving bassline, tight drums. Modern production, dynamic range.
```

> **Before finalizing, count comma-separated descriptors.** V5's sweet spot is 4-7 total; 8+ causes "prompt fatigue" where V5 dilutes or ignores tags (see `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/reference/suno/v5-best-practices.md` § Keep It Simple). Watch for synonym-piles — stacking "imperious, commanding, regal, grand, theatrical, explosive" is one mood said six ways, not six descriptors. Collapse to 1-2 words per concept (vocal identity, genre, tempo, 2-3 instruments, 1 production note) to keep the total within 4-7. Move section-by-section emotional variation into Performance Cues in the Lyrics Box instead of adding more adjectives here — that is the correct place for an arc, not the Style Box.

Reviewer: **Finding 1 (the mechanical half).** This counting rule undercounts, because the Style Box is delimited by periods *and* commas (`[Vocal]. [Genre]. [Production]`) — so "count comma-separated descriptors" skips the period boundaries. The worked example just above actually carries **9** descriptors, but a comma-only count returns 7 and green-lights it. Reworded opening sentence:

```suggestion
**Before finalizing, count every descriptor across all three blocks** — the box is delimited by periods *and* commas (`[Vocal]. [Genre]. [Production]`), so counting commas alone undercounts. V5's sweet spot is 4-7 total; 8+ causes "prompt fatigue" where V5 dilutes or ignores tags (see `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/reference/suno/v5-best-practices.md` § Keep It Simple). Watch for synonym-piles — stacking "imperious, commanding, regal, grand, theatrical, explosive" is one mood said six ways, not six descriptors. Collapse to 1-2 words per concept (vocal identity, genre, tempo, 2-3 instruments, 1 production note) to keep the total within 4-7. Move section-by-section emotional variation into Performance Cues in the Lyrics Box instead of adding more adjectives here — that is the correct place for an arc, not the Style Box.
```

Separately (left as prose, since it sits on the hunk boundary and isn't a clean one-click fix): the **example on lines 172–173** should also be trimmed to actually model the rule — right now it has 3 vocal descriptors (budget: 1) and 2 production notes (budget: 1), 9 total. Something like `Male baritone, storytelling delivery. Alternative rock, clean electric guitar, driving bass, tight drums. Modern production.` lands at 7.

5. **Define vocals** - Specify voice type, delivery, energy. Pull a concrete texture/style descriptor from `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/reference/suno/voice-tags.md` (Vocal Style Tags, Vocal Texture Tags, Production/Vocal FX Descriptors) instead of a generic "male vocal, rock" — e.g. "gravelly, belting" beats "powerful"

> 6. **Choose instruments** - Select key instruments and sonic texture. Match to genre using `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/reference/suno/instrumental-tags.md` § Genre-Specific Instruments (2-4 key instruments, not a full list)

Reviewer: **Finding 6.** `2-4 key instruments` here can push the Style Box to 8 descriptors (vocal + genre + tempo + 4 instruments + production) — the 8+ "prompt fatigue" zone the new rule at line 176 warns against. Tightening to `2-3` keeps it consistent with the descriptor budget (which already reads "2-3 instruments"):

```suggestion
6. **Choose instruments** - Select key instruments and sonic texture. Match to genre using `${CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT}/reference/suno/instrumental-tags.md` § Genre-Specific Instruments (2-3 key instruments, not a full list — keeps the Style Box total within 4-7)
```

- [ ] No awkward cuts or loops
- [ ] No unwanted instruments/elements present (verify exclusions were effective)

Before generating, also verify the prompt itself is built for reliable output, not just the resulting audio:
- [ ] Style Box stays within the 4-7 descriptor sweet spot (no synonym-stacking)

> - [ ] Structure tags carry Performance Cues where the song's emotional arc shifts (not left as bare `[Verse]`/`[Chorus]` throughout)

Reviewer: **Finding 2.** This QC item gates cues only "where the arc shifts," but the mandate at steps 8 (line 311) and the Section Tags block (line 70) — and the CHANGELOG ("appended to *every* structure tag / all 12 section tags") — is "every section, by default." As written, a track with cues on just 2–3 sections passes QC while staying mostly bare. Reworded to match the default:

```suggestion
- [ ] Structure tags carry Performance Cues on every section by default (not left as bare `[Verse]`/`[Chorus]`), with the sharpest variation where the emotional arc shifts
```
